6.0 English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello and welcome to 6 Minute English from BBCLearningEnglish.
I'm Beth.
And I'm Neil.
Now it's Christmas time in the UK at the moment.
And like with celebrations around the world,
lots of people have many happy memories about Christmas.
Beth, do you have any happy Christmas memories?
I have a lot.
My cousins and I used to always put on a Christmas performance for the family.
That was always fun.
What about you?
Christmas was magical.
I lived in Canada when I was a kid and it was always snowing,
so it just felt perfect.
Amazing.
Well, at this time of year, we might look back at the Christmas's from the past,
from our childhood,
and feel like they were happier or more magical than Christmas fields today.
Yes, thinking about the past can make us feel happy and sad at the same time.
It's a strange feeling we call nostalgia.
And we're going to be talking about nostalgia today,
as well as Christmas memories and traditions.
And as usual, we'll be learning some useful new words and phrases.
You can practice these with the quiz and the worksheets on our website.
Go to BBCLearningEnglish.com
First, Beth, I have a question for you.
In the UK, the most popular Christmas meal is a roast turkey.
Oh, yes, and all the roast potatoes and Brussels sprouts.
That's right, yes, but which of these has become a popular food
to eat at Christmas time in Japan?
Is it a turkey ramen, b fried chicken, or c take away pizza?
I think the answer is fried chicken.
Well, we'll find out at the end of the program.
Now, at Christmas, people often create family traditions that they repeat every year.
Common traditions in the UK include putting out a snack for father Christmas
that Santa Claus who delivers presents for children.
Well, here is host of BBC Radio Force all in the mind, Claudia Hammond,
talking to psychology professor Darrell O'Connor about his Christmas traditions.
Hello, Darrell.
I wonder whether you think nostalgia for Christmas past influences your Christmas present.
Well, indeed it does, Claudia.
So actually, I look back on my childhood Christmas.
Lots and lots of nostalgia.
So when I was a child, every single Christmas morning,
we would have to queue up on the stairs.
And my father would go into the front room of the house.
Just to double check.
Just to kiss Santa Claus was still there.
And we had it wet.
And then, of course, I have repeated that exact same thing for my children.
They line up on the stairs as well, how sweet.
Dying for their presence.
When Claudia asked Darrell whether nostalgia influences his present day
Christmas's Darrell response indeed it does.
This is a common conversational way to say yes or agree with someone.
We say, indeed, followed by do in the present tense.
On Christmas morning, Darrell asks his children to queue up on the stairs,
so he can check for Santa Claus, just like Darrell's father did when he was small.
And Claudia likes this tradition, imagining the children waiting on the stairs,
dying for their presence.
We use the phrase dying for informally when someone really wants something.
Now, when we remember Christmas from the past and feel nostalgia,
we often remember things in a very positive way.
But was the past definitely better?
Are we remembering correctly?
This is what Claudia Hammond asked Katherine Loveday, who's a professor of cognitive neuroscience
on BBC Radio 4 program all in the mind.
How accurate are nostalgic memories on the accurate?
Well, they're often going to be rose-tinted and made more positive, of course,
and that's what we do with our past generally.
It doesn't really matter. I mean, in our work, we just shown that the function of memory
is not about accuracy. It doesn't matter if some of the details are wrong.
It doesn't matter how we frame it. In fact, it's actually better for us in a way,
to reframe our memories and to slightly adjust them to suit who we are now.
Katherine says that our memories are often rose-tinted.
If a memory is rose-tinted, we only see the positive things about it,
and don't remember any of the bad parts.
But according to Katherine, it doesn't always matter. She says the function of memory is not accuracy.
Function means the purpose of something.
In fact, Katherine says that how we frame a memory doesn't matter.
Frame can be used as a verb to mean how we think of or describe something like a memory.
So our memories aren't that accurate.
And it isn't that important, unless, of course, we need to remember factual details about something important.
So, Anna, Stalja, about Christmas memories, might not be based on what things were actually like in the past.
But we shouldn't worry too much.
And I think it's time I revealed the answer to my quiz question, Beth.
I asked, what has become a traditional food to eat in Japan at Christmas time?
And I said, fried chicken was I right?
You are absolutely correct.
Let's recap the vocabulary we've learned, starting with nostalgia,
a feeling of happiness and also some sadness when you think about a thing that happened in the past.
The phrase, indeed, followed by the present simple form of do, can be used informally instead of answering yes.
For example, Beth, do you enjoy eating Brussels sprouts at Christmas?
Indeed, I do.
Dying for something is an informal phrasal verb we use to say that we really want something.
Rose tinted means seeing only the positive parts of something and not the bad parts.
Function means the purpose of something.
And frame can be used as a verb to mean how we think of or describe something.
Once again, our six minutes are up.
Test why you've learned in the episode with the quiz and worksheets on our websites.
To all our listeners who are celebrating Christmas, Merry Christmas, and we hope you all have a good end to the year.
See you soon.
Bye!
6-Mute English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com